so I have a message from a patreon
supporter who I'm just gonna call Nick
and this is about something many of us
know firsthand suddenly that's maybe in
the background of all our discussions
about effective activism lifestyle
activism
mmm vegan politics which is just the
awareness that in real life face to face
most vegan activism sucks it's crappy
it's exhausting it's not rewarding feels
bad if the people involved has very few
positive outcomes and you know this is
also part of the origin story for DXE so
DXE is a vegan animal rights group DXE
is their way of abbreviating direct
action everywhere I have many videos on
this channel criticizing but one of the
aspects of their their act their routine
that I have sympathized with that have
commented on sympathetically was just
that they really decided to found a new
group with a new approach to protesting
and activism because they were already
frustrated with wasting their time and
energy using other approaches now the
new approach they adopted I think is
terrible I think it's a disaster I think
it's all bad and they're still wasting
their time doing things like going to
baseball games and running onto the
field trying to hold a poster that says
go vegan like you know interrupting the
baseball game if you know anything about
American baseball that means that the
security runs out and pounces on you so
you're on the baseball pitch for a few
seconds and the crowd there's no idea
why you're interrupting the game and
they think you're just another crazy fan
or idiot who's interrupting the baseball
game because that does happen often
enough people for different reasons some
people run naked under the baseball pit
just for stupid reasons people run onto
the baseball pitch and security pounces
on them it's like a normal thing at
sports games so direct action everywhere
their response to what was wrong with
the old style of activism was to invent
a new style of activism that's even
worse so it's pathetic but I can
sympathize and their founder and boss he
pretends he's not the boss but he is
Wayne's Young who is very much the
dictator for life of the DXE group
Wayne's she hung he likes to mention in
his lectures on this on why DXE was
created
he likes to mention that for many years
he would bake cookies and give out
cookies on University campus with a
message about veganism animal rights
vegan cookies we presume so he gave out
hundreds of cookies and hundreds of
Flyers of the cookies and this wasn't
the fact that it was waste this time so
I understand I understand but what
you're gonna do with that impulse is
another question so I've got a message
here from Nick and you're gonna see some
of you are gonna hear this and you're
gonna be really like yeah yeah yeah
you're gonna know exactly what's being
talked about here it's gonna be overly
familiar to you
and some of you have never tried this
kind of stuff before so give me listen
to it going didn't didn't realize didn't
realize that was the way the cookie
crumbled with these situations so Nick
writes to me by the way Nick if you want
me to promote your channel or use your
full name if you want me in future to
promote your website tell me but I treat
people as anonymous in case they want to
remain anonymous in these videos so I'm
just calling you Nick and he hasn't he
hasn't mentioned having a website or
anything
Nick writes I just wanted to update you
on what happened this semester since the
last time we talked I had my first
encounter of just how apathetic people
are above veganism I printed out and cut
up over 200 flyers mostly using scissors
a bad and painful move for the
cowspiracy showing and discussion that
was on campus so the point is he was
making fliers to promote they decided to
show a a vegan film documentary called
cowspiracy
I handed them out to all my closest
friends to everyone in all my classes to
people outside the campus walking to the
residential side of campus etcetera etc
okay the next part of the sense is a
little bit peculiar he says some
professors and not one person showed up
from this effort so I assume his point
is a couple of people a couple of
professors showed up but not a single
normal person showed up as a result of
this this effort to promote the event
the only people who came were people who
got extra credit from one vegan
professor and another professor who I
don't know much about so two professor
participated plus a few students who
were more or less forced to go by their
professors abso out of the 200 flyers
the success rate was 0% people didn't
come to learn they didn't come to be
exposed to new ideas they just came for
points ie for for bonus marks in their
class I'm sure my inexperience is
showing pretty obviously in this email
that I was expecting at least two or
three people to be interested enough to
learn about something never heard of the
forum after all I remember the thought
in my own head when I clicked on the
video that turned me vegan a video that
would challenge my ideas and not just
assuming the person on YouTube was some
crazy person but that I would hear them
out on why I should stop eating meat
pretty ironic I know right apparently
that line of thinking is more rare than
I thought
so next semester I need a new approach I
was thinking about going personally to
different environmental clubs on campus
and handing out flyers there instead
connecting more with people who are
tangentially related to veganism whether
they know it or not
basically what I'm asking is do you know
of any effective ways to advertise an
informational event for veganism that
happens on campus every semester just
one last note the food company that
services the college has asked our group
to advertise for meatless Mondays and
get more people to send their info into
the heartless corporation that makes
money out of selling food on campus in
this case it's Chartwells horrible in my
experience a terrible company needless
to say the meatless Monday's meals they
have been serving are loaded with cheese
and butter but if we get support for it
and show Chartwells the students I
should care that might change that it
would give us a voice but we have been
greeted with more apathy we assigned
everyone in the group to contact
environmental clubs and ask them to show
a video explaining meatless Mondays and
explaining the impact it could have on
campus health not a single group got
back to any of us the only response I
got was from one of my friends
complaining to me that we posted on her
club's Facebook page without asking on a
club open oh and that was for a club
that was open to all students next
semester I plan to get permission to
at different club meetings personally
together support for the campaign but
none of my disheartened Club members
seem to want to do the same is there
something I could do that I'm not solo
effort against from experience do you
even think the talking at Club meetings
is effective as this semester ends I
won't have to eat seven PB&J sandwiches
a week with warm rice and cold salad bar
beans every other meal so that's a plus
so we may be able to do something
positive next semester so he's alluding
to here it's not the most clearly
written email the actual food eats on
campus is garbage his situation to be
able to feed himself is pretty awful his
situation in terms of being able to
motivate or participate with other
students is pretty helpful you know it's
it's depressing it's bleak and it seems
like a waste everyone's time and
everybody else the group except for him
wants to give up right I can relate and
this is also why I mean I've had many
many videos talking about the impulse
towards violence and radicalism and
extremism within veganism you know this
is one of the things that drives people
towards extremism is the feeling that
being moderate being reasonable doesn't
get results people feel emotionally
drained because this is something so
meaningful to them it's something so
important to them and they feel like
they're screaming in the face of a crowd
of people that's completely indifferent
right so maybe they get interested in
something that will get a reaction out
of the crowd whether that's moral or
immoral right they get interested in
some kind of protest or you know a lot
of campuses have animal rights activists
who try to break into the labs try to
damage property or get into more and
more extreme forms of activism to try to
get the response they want from an
indifferent public look I mean I
actually don't wanna answer this
question it is video it's gonna be a
one-hour discussion some other video and
I feel have made many videos in the past
if you just search for the words
effective activism on this channel
you're gonna find many many many
reflections from me on what is a
active activism what does it mean and
what can it be in your life but I mean I
could do a specific video talking about
what's what's possible and what's
impossible and on a campus I do think
that part of what you're struggling with
here what's the name of using Nick right
okay part of what you're struggling with
your Nick I really think is a sort of
unexamined inheritance from left-wing
politics the assumption that something
like you know this is understandable
the assumption that the mode of protest
and the mode of radicalizing people is
like the way people used to rile up
public opinion on the oppression of
african-americans in the 1960s okay
the oppression of African Americans the
unequal status the poor living
conditions of the poor economic
conditions of African Americans 1960s
was something that was obvious to
everybody it was on the TV news every
night it was something people were
physically uncomfortable with every day
it was telling people were talking about
on the street and being confronted with
on the street in many forms and seeing
every day it was something that everyone
on or off university campus had to have
an opinion about so the reality of
giving out pamphlets or having events or
protests in that unique set of
historical circumstances is totally
different from the situation for
veganism today and again I normally use
it as a positive comparison but you have
to think so my point is here without
examining it without being aware of it I
think that many vegans are assuming that
they are in the same position as
radicals
you know roasting up is roasting the
right that your radicals harnessing an
already present you know social
discontent like that the people are
ready to rise up that people are curious
that people are concerned that people
are engaged the people are angry that
people are unsettled and all you have to
do is hand out flyers to get people come
to an event and in the 1960s that was
definitely true with the status of
African Americans and my pointer it's
not just African Americans who responded
that millions of white people were
really concerned and didn't know what to
do wanted to hear a voice of reason and
wanted to attend events and rallies and
debates and get involved because it was
such an obvious social
problem they couldn't be ignored right
now my point is here it's not that
vegans are consciously and intentionally
imitating that culture of descent or
that culture of protest or that that
pattern of political activism I think in
a totally unexpected part of that
cultural legacy will have the same kind
of results will have the same kind of
public interest and it won't so normally
I make a positive comparison between
veganism and the struggle to deal with
drunk driving or the struggle to deal
with cigarette smoking right like
Mothers Against Drunk Driving but it's
also a negative comparison a sense
because again if if you're not comparing
the situation of veganism to radical
left-wing politics or you know black
liberation politics black civil rights
politics in the 1960s
you have to realize Mothers Against
Drunk Driving a group tried to deal with
a problem like drunk driving or
cigarette smoking they were never in the
situation of just walking around a
university campus and handing out flyers
and having thousands of people ready to
rise up it was never that kind of issue
it was never gonna harness that kind of
discontent right it's not I mean know
again people to some extent they may
care emotionally about drunk driving
even if you say yeah you know what my
cousin was killed in a drunk driving
accident people may care emotionally but
cigarettes won't they say yeah you know
my grandfather died of lung cancer
because of cigarette smoke it's there
but still it doesn't mean that you can
walk around a university campus and just
tap into seething discontent and that
really is the illusion that the
left-wing banks on so heavily because
the whole tradition of communism and
socialism is based on the illusion that
the workers the masses are seething with
discontent at all times that all you
have to do is go and ask anyone who has
a factory job and they're all on the
edge of rising up in a revolution to
tear down the government now nothing
could be further from the truth this is
an illusion primarily based on fiction
about what happened in Paris in 1871 in
the days of the Paris
you know like this is a very specific
kind of historical fraud both looking
backward in history the way communists
misrepresent the past history of Europe
and looking forward in history you know
about how this supposedly is a pattern
that's gonna repeat itself even though
we're lying about what happened the last
time and the time before that you know
what happened in you know various failed
revolutions and I'm sorry I think I just
gave the I may have just given you the
wrong day for the the Paris Commune
sorry um I'm thinking of 1789 is that is
the French Revolution and then what am I
thinking of Paris Commune is 1871 right
let's use Google let's see if I've got
those date right 1871 in Paris Commune
am I wrong back me up here Google I
think that's right 1789 and 1871 oh but
I'm in China so Google is blocked
authenticity your people yeah okay so
I'm right so my memory is not failing me
okay great
so yes I could do a much longer video
I've done many videos in the past that
were defective actors might approach
these things but insurance oh you think
about it I do think you you you need to
start with a totally different paradigm
of appreciating the position you're in
that you're not harnessing some seething
discontent it's not the case that
there's a revolutionary fervor or even
the kind of discomfort that exists or
that existed in the 1960s with the you
know unequal status of black people
you're in a situation of contentment so
again that left-wing paradise is about
the left-wing paradigm is about
harnessing discontent and they had this
illusion that there already is this
revolutionary discontent boiling up
everywhere especially among the working
class or among African Americans and all
you have to do is harness it or direct
it or tap into it okay the situation for
vegans is that we are living in a
society that is contented we're instead
addressing ourselves to contentment
complete contentment people are not even
dissatisfied to the same extent that
they're dissatisfied with
drunk driving as a social problem or
cigarettes causing cancer is a social
problem people are happy eating meat
people are happy eating cheese the whole
[ __ ] civilization could not be more
contented with its cheap readily
available and relatively safe access to
meat products meat and dairy products
remember a hundred years ago meat and
dairy products carried disease and
infection at a much higher rate thanks
to you know modern hygiene and modern
you know refrigeration technology these
foods have become more and more readily
available more easily for people to
consume etcetera etcetera so you are
addressing your protest
you're not harnessing discontentment
you're addressing a contented and
indifferent audience and I think what
you're trying to do is create
discontentment out of contentment and in
a very fundamental way that is the wrong
approach and that is always going to be
rewarded with the kind of frustration
that you're facing here so my heart goes
out to you I do sympathise and I do
sympathise the people who've gotten
pissed off with how ineffective these
methods are and who have like Wayne see
on like the rarity I should never have
tried to seek out a new method of
activism but it's a great shame I think
that so far they have all been seeking
out the wrong methods and in many cases
they've traded in a bad method for one
that is even worse